---
title: "Physics-Informed Recurrent Neural Networks for Multiscale Damage Modeling"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/J10-2023-CM-2
venue: 'Computational Mechanics'
date: 2023-01-01
citation: '<b>Deng, Shiguang</b>, Shirin Hosseinmardi, Diran Apelian, Ramin Bostanabad. "Physics-Informed Recurrent Neural Networks for Multiscale Damage Modeling." <i>Computational Mechanics</i> (2023), under review: arXiv:2212.01880.' 
---
Abstract: Computational modeling of heterogeneous materials is increasingly relying on multiscale simulations
which typically leverage the homogenization theory for scale coupling. Such simulations
are prohibitively expensive and memory-intensive especially when modeling damage and
fracture in large 3D components such as cast alloys. To address these challenges, we develop a
physics-informed deep learning model that surrogates the microscale simulations. We build this
model within a mechanistic data-driven framework such that it accurately predicts the effective
microstructural responses under irreversible elasto-plastic hardening and softening deformations.
To achieve high accuracy while reducing the reliance on labeled data, we design the architecture
of our deep learning model based on damage mechanics and introduce a new loss component that
increases the thermodynamic consistency of the model. We use physics-based reduced-order models
to generate the training data of our deep learning model and demonstrate that, in addition to
achieving high accuracy on unseen deformation paths that include severe softening, the model can
be embedded in 3D multiscale simulations with fracture. With this embedding we also demonstrate
that state-of-the-art techniques such as teacher forcing result in deep learning models that cause
divergence in multiscale simulations. Our numerical experiments indicate that our model is more
accurate than pure data-driven models and is much more efficient than physics-based reduced-order
models.

A copy of the full paper can be downloaded [here](/files/J10-2023-CM-2.pdf).