---
title: "Data-Driven Calibration of Multifidelity Multiscale Fracture Models via Latent Map Gaussian Process"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/J9-2023-JMD
venue: 'Journal of Mechanical Design'
date: 2023-01-01
citation: '<b>Deng, Shiguang</b>,  Carlos Mora, Diran Apelian, Ramin Bostanabad. "Data-Driven Calibration of Multifidelity Multiscale Fracture Models Via Latent Map Gaussian Process." <i>Journal of Mechanical Design</i> (2023), 145(1): 011705.' 
---
Abstract: Fracture modeling of metallic alloys with microscopic pores relies on multiscale damage simulations which typically ignore the manufacturing-induced spatial variabilities in porosity. This simplification is made because of the prohibitive computational expenses of explicitly modeling spatially varying microstructures in a macroscopic part. To address this challenge and open the doors for the fracture-aware design of multiscale materials, we propose a data-driven framework that integrates a mechanistic reduced-order model (ROM) with a calibration scheme based on random processes. Our ROM drastically accelerates direct numerical simulations (DNS) by using a stabilized damage algorithm and systematically reducing the degrees of freedom via clustering. Since clustering affects local strain fields and hence the fracture response, we calibrate the ROM by constructing a multifidelity random process based on latent map Gaussian processes (LMGPs). In particular, we use LMGPs to calibrate the damage parameters of an ROM as a function of microstructure and clustering (i.e., fidelity) level such that the ROM faithfully surrogates DNS. We demonstrate the application of our framework in predicting the damage behavior of a multiscale metallic component with spatially varying porosity. Our results indicate that microstructural porosity can significantly affect the performance of macro-components and hence must be considered in the design process. 

A copy of the full paper can be downloaded [here](/files/J9-2023-JMD.pdf).